operation-guide-contents-update (#504)
klaytn/klaytn-docs: docs/operation-guide/disk-management.md

# Disk management - Chaindata Change <a id="disk-management"></a>

<aside>
💡 THIS GUIDE IS BASED ON Amazon Linux 2

</aside>

## CN Node **Migration STEP**

### Create new disk

> 1. Preparing new disk (2500GB disk) or creating new path on the current disk (It must have 2500GB available.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Preparing new disk (2,500GB disk) or creating new path on the current disk (It must have 2,500GB available.)
```

If you specify the number here, you need to keep this up-to-date whenever we require more disk space.

Reviewer 2: @xellos-oh 
Please update the value to 3000 like another page
https://docs.klaytn.foundation/installation-guide/deployment/endpoint-node/system-requirements

Author: I will fix it to 2,500GB and think again about how to keep it in the next update.

Download Chain Data to the data of the new Klaytn Data DIR. (You can check the details on Chain Data in [https://packages.klaytn.net/cypress/chaindata/](https://packages.klaytn.net/cypress/chaindata/))

1. Download with the following command

```bash
# (Option 1: recommended) curl 
$ curl -o klaytn-cypress-chaindata-2021???????????.tar.gz "https://s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/klaytn-chaindata/cypress/klaytn-cypress-chaindata-2021???????????.tar.gz"

# (Option 2) aws s3 command
$ aws s3 cp s3://klaytn-chaindata/cypress/klaytn-cypress-chaindata-2021???????????.tar.gz klaytn-cypress-chaindata-20211113011111.tar.gz 

# (Option 3) axel (need to install axel)
sudo amazon-linux-extras install epel -y
sudo yum install axel pigz
$ axel -n8 https://s3.ap-northeast-2.amazonaws.com/klaytn-chaindata/cypress/klaytn-cypress-chaindata-2021???????????.tar.gz
```

2. Decompress

```bash
# (Option 1: recommended) tar
$ tar -xvf klaytn-cypress-chaindata-2021???????????.tar.gz

# (Option 2) pigz (need to isntall pigz)
$ tar -I pigz -xvf klaytn-cypress-chaindata-2021???????????.tar.gz
```

## Configure DATA_DIR & LOG_DIR

### Option 1 - Swap the old & new path

<aside>
🚨 TBD

</aside>

> 1. Stop klaytn daemon process before swap

Reviewer: it would be good to add a command to know how to stop the daemon.

Reviewer 2: @kjhman21 
The default command exist on previous page.
Do you think that we need the command here also?

Reviewer: @markyim-klaytn yes, to run the command easily. I guess there is no one remembering the command even if we used it in the previous section.

Author: @markyim-klaytn 
How about attaching links to related documentation?
https://docs.klaytn.foundation/installation-guide/deployment/core-cell/installation-guide/consensus-node-setup/startup-the-cn

Reviewer: @markyim-klaytn @xellos-oh Okay. good to go. Thanks.

    1. ***IMPORTANT*** Remove CN node in Klaytn council if the node type is CN
2. Swap the old and new path
    1. New Disk

        ```bash

>         sudo umount /var/kcnd # old path

Reviewer: Instead of adding `sudo`, it could be good to add a note that `these commands should be executed with the appropriate privileges` or something similar.

Author: @markyim-klaytn @kjhman21 
How about attaching links to related documentation?
https://docs.klaytn.foundation/installation-guide/deployment/core-cell/installation-guide/consensus-node-setup/startup-the-cn
